I hope you're getting used to JavaScript now. You are starting to write a lot.
Let's continue with strings. Something else with strings and you'll see this a lot, is that it has to
be enclosed within double parentheses or just single quotation marks.
If I go variable person equals
"My name is John".
And we just document.write that to the console.
Sorry, let's just get rid of this "click me" button in the HTML.
You can see "My name is John".
What happens, though, if you want this in quotation marks as well?
Well, there are two ways you can do it. #1, you can just have one set of quotation marks in here.
And it does it for you.
You can see the result.
#2 But the other way is what's known as escaping.
JavaScript text and strings can be used to manipulate text. And a string is just any text within quotes.
But when you put a backslash in front of anything, it tells the browser that it must ignore its normal
execution context of treating whatever it is that you put that in front of!
Wow, it's a mouthful.
Let me show you what I mean by that.
If you wanted John to be in its own inverted comments, but you wanted to use double quotation marks,
how would we do that?
Well, you can escape it.
You would use the backslash,
and you can use double quotation marks.
How cool is that?
There you go. Let's get rid of that one.
There you go.
My name is John.
That's called escaping.
Let's find out more about escaping now. Escaping characters,
we've seen how this works in terms of double quotation marks, but we're not limited to that.
So let's just take a step back and go over it again.
Escaping just means that you temporarily exit out of parsing your code the usual way.
So you're just telling the browser to escape that process,
get out of that process.
The backslash as a marker that tells the interpreter that the next characters are special in some way,
that it mustn't interpret those as it normally would.
What these next characters mean is then up to the interpreter. For example, C-style languages use \n
to mean a newline and \t to mean a tab.
And JavaScript
(boom explosion sound)
and many other languages are very similar in these respects.
So let's take the example "Hello world" and say you want to have "Hello" and "world" on separate lines?
How would we do that?
Well, one way is to put that \n, and "n" just stands for newline.
The interpreter will then see the backslash, and it knows now that the "n" has a special meaning. It
mustn't be taken as the letter "n". Yes,
so we know "n" has a special meaning,
but what meaning is that?
And in JavaScript that "n" means newline.
In summary, when this result is displayed in the browser, it's not going to be shown as "Hello \n
\n world".
It will be shown, though, as Hello
and on the next line, you're going to see "world". And this is all escaping is. Again,
don't be intimidated with all the terminology in programming languages. At the crux of it,
it's actually very simple.